Add 2023-10-11 agenda and minutes (#583)
solid/specification: meetings/2023-10-11.md

* RG: I wanted to ask if those remarks are public or were submitted directly to the W3C team.
* PAC: Members can choose to make the responses public but are not required. This is a synthesis of public and non-public responses.
* SC: For some of the significant feedback requiring to update charter, clarify process, etc. 
* SC: We need to update editors draft to be updated with current charter. If you see that some specific specs are not doing what they are supposed to do please let us know.
* SC: Charter is referring to the TRs, to updated them we need to make a new release. WG can look at either editor drafts or latest publish versions on solidproject.org/TR
* SC: I see most of the points as straight forward to address. Including broadening the scope. If you could come up with concrete issues we could propose PRs addressing those specific issues. We don't want to randomly propose things.

> * PAC: My goal is to create an issue for each one of those items. Whenever I can include more details I will do it. For public votes I will copy and paste all the details.
> * PAC: We probably want to use `solid/solid-wg-charter` for those PRs no to create to much activity on W3C charters repo.
> * PAC: I'm not worried about the contents of the cg.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PAC: My goal is to create an issue for each one of those items. Whenever I can include more details, I will do it. For public votes, I will copy and paste all the details.
  * ... We probably want to use `solid/solid-wg-charter` for those PRs so not to create too much activity on W3C charters repo.
  * ... I'm not worried about the contents of the cg.
```

* eP: Regarding dependencies. Our latest approach to was to mark them as optional deliverables.

> * PAC: We don't have a clear list of deliverables. Depending on the maturity of the specs is transferring the authority to the CG. Here the criticism on different process between CG and WG is valid. We should think which specifications WG can bring to REC. We should decide for the rest if we make them soft or optional dependencies. 
> * eP: Extending the timeline, would it be feasible that the dependencies are necessary for Solid. Instead of depending on CG or whatever else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PAC: We don't have a clear list of deliverables. Depending on the maturity of the specs, the authority may be transferred to the CG. Here the criticism on different process between CG and WG is valid. We should think which specifications WG can bring to REC. We should decide for the rest if we make them soft or optional dependencies. 
* eP: Extending the timeline, would it be feasible that the dependencies are necessary for Solid? Instead of depending on CG or whatever else...
```

* SC: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/37#issuecomment-1566833007

> * SC: This is precisely the thing that we needed a feedback from W3C. If either the charter is accepted with all of those deliverables, or there needs to be understanding that Solid Protocol still can get to REC irrespective to the status of the dependencies.
> * SC: The current list of deliverables is already a lot for a WG. I took ages to get to the point where the specs are now. For example for Solid Protocol there has been few months of waiting for the next release since there are not reviews being submitted. What guarantee would WG participants can give that they'll actually get things done when they didn't in the CG.
> * SC: W3C needs to tell us what is acceptable. I linked to some examples, AS2 or ActivityPub which link to some dependencies which were not mature enough at that time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ... This is precisely the sort of thing where we need feedback from W3C — whether the charter is accepted with all of those deliverables, or there needs to be some understanding that Solid Protocol still can get to REC irrespective of the status of the dependencies.
  * ... The current list of deliverables is already a lot for a WG. I took ages to get to the point where the specs are now. For example for Solid Protocol there has been few months of waiting for the next release since there are not reviews being submitted. What guarantee would WG participants can give that they'll actually get things done when they didn't in the CG.
  * ... W3C needs to tell us what is acceptable. I linked to some examples, AS2 or ActivityPub which link to some dependencies which were not mature enough at that time.
```

* PAC: I agree. CG can give feedback on which specs are mature enough to put on REC track and which could be made optional in solid protocol.
* eP: Would it make it clear that those dependencies are 1.0, then 2.0 that can be released 2 years later and can swap those dependencies? Some kind of an evolution of Solid.

> * SC: This sounds like a very hypothetical discussion. Maybe even Solid will fall apart and there will never be 2.0. This could be a special topic meeting on it's own. Depends on variables and incubation and adoption etc... etc..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: This sounds like a very hypothetical discussion. Maybe even Solid will fall apart and there will never be 2.0. This could be a special topic meeting on it's own. Depends on variables, and incubation, and adoption, etc., etc.
```

URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/576

* SC: Just a stub for now.
* SC: I don't want it to focus on punishment, more about having a healthy culture.

### Solid CG Chair Election Procedure
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/582

* SC: Summary..

> * SC: Everyone should review it, I will unlock it as soon as I get it reviewed by W3C staff.
> * SC: They are on-board and interested to see how it is going to work.
> * SC: We need volunteers to review eligible participants list, based on charter and affiliations.
> * SC: W3C can't act as 3rd party, they don't have resources to do that. They will help us to anonymise the results and use W3C tool to process the results.
> * SC: We need to agree on when do we start.
> * SC: We also need volunteers to compute the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ... Everyone should review it; I will unlock it as soon as I get it reviewed by W3C staff.
  * ... They are on-board and interested to see how it is going to work.
  * ... We need volunteers to review eligible participants list, based on charter and affiliations.
  * ... W3C can't act as 3rd party; they don't have resources to do that. They will help us to anonymise the results and to use W3C tools to process the results.
  * ... We need to agree on when do we start.
  * ... We also need volunteers to compute the results.
```

* JZ: I don't have any problem in general. I agree with Tim that people should be encouraged to give their vision of how they want to chair. We shouldn't suggest how one should chair the CG.
* VB: I'm happy to help with counting and processing. The self-review is meant as an exercise for oneself and not a list of question that one has to answer.

> * SC: W3C has a document on chair role which is on top of that discussion. It has some guidelines of what is expected from chairs.
> * SC: We also hope for 3 chairs which will bring diverse perspectives.
> * SC: We need at least one more volunteer besides Virginia
> * SC: Should we set date for next Wednesday for snapshotting eligible participants? For voting and chair nominations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: W3C has a document on chair role which is on top of that discussion. It has some guidelines of what is expected from chairs.
  * ... We also hope for 3 chairs which will bring diverse perspectives.
  * ... We need at least one more volunteer besides Virginia
  * ... Should we set date for next Wednesday for snapshotting eligible participants? For voting and chair nominations.
```

* VB: We can go with 1 week
* HZ: +1
* PAC: +1
* HZ: I can also volunteer
* TT: To review participants list or to chair?
* SC: To review the list and run that open STV tool from W3C.
* eP: I can also volunteer

### [New Work Item Proposal] Solid-PREP
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/580

* SC: Proposed by RG. Please ping in the issue to co-own so it'll be a work item.
* RG: I have mentioned everything in the issue.

> * RG: I don't expect it a lot of work, there is already an open issue for that.
> * eP: Issue relates to storage operations. There is another issue in solid/specification (which is unresolved). We could move to the core perhaps in the WG. That seems like a dependency in these kinds of activities. There may be complications on how this could be resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: I don't expect it to be a lot of work; there is already an open issue for that.
* eP: Issue relates to storage operations. There is another issue in solid/specification (which is unresolved). We could move to the core, perhaps in the WG. That seems like a dependency in these kinds of activities. There may be complications on how this could be resolved.
```
